NetBSD 2022 Annual General Meeting on 2022/05/21
===================================================

http://mail-index.netbsd.org/netbsd-announce/2022/05/11/msg000338.html

::

 America/Los_Angeles     Sat May 21 07:00:00 PDT 2022
 America/Denver          Sat May 21 08:00:00 MDT 2022
 America/Winnipeg        Sat May 21 09:00:00 CDT 2022
 America/New_York        Sat May 21 10:00:00 EDT 2022
 Europe/London           Sat May 21 15:00:00 BST 2022
 Europe/Berlin           Sat May 21 16:00:00 CEST 2022
 Europe/Sofia            Sat May 21 17:00:00 EEST 2022
 Europe/Moscow           Sat May 21 17:00:00 MSK 2022
 Asia/Calcutta           Sat May 21 19:30:00 IST 2022
 Asia/Bangkok            Sat May 21 21:00:00 +07 2022
 Asia/Manila             Sat May 21 22:00:00 PST 2022
 Asia/Tokyo              Sat May 21 23:00:00 JST 2022
 Australia/Adelaide      Sat May 21 23:30:00 ACST 2022
 Australia/Melbourne     Sun May 22 00:00:00 AEST 2022
 Pacific/Auckland        Sun May 22 02:00:00 NZST 2022

::

 <pickles> good morning! (if applicable, else hello! :) )
 <racoon> morning :)
 <spz> Dear Gentlebeings,
 <spz> ,
 <spz> Welcome to the 2022 Annual General Meeting
 <spz> of The NetBSD Foundation.
 <spz> ,
 <spz> I am the moderator, i.e. voice-bot, for todays AGM.
 <spz> ,
 <spz> This is the agenda for this AGM:
 <spz> ,
 <spz> Intro 
 <spz> ,
 <spz> Reports from:
 <spz> * board
 <spz> * communications
 <spz> * finance-exec
 <spz> * membership-exec
 <spz> * admins
 <spz> * core
 <spz> * security-team
 <spz> * releng
 <spz> * pkgsrc-pmc
 <spz> * pkgsrc-security
 <spz> * pkgbuild
 <spz> * gnats
 <spz> ,
 <spz> Are there any last-minute additions to the reports? msg me.
 <spz> ,
 <spz> Q&A session for all of the above, and general questions.
 <spz> ,
 <spz> When Q&A begins, msg me "I have a question for <team>"
 <spz> or "I have a question for <nick>" and I will give you voice
 <spz> when it's your turn.
 <spz> ,

Introduction
------------

::

 <spz> Here comes leot with the intro, 
 <spz> followed by the reports by board and communication: 
 <leot> Hello everyone and welcome! (this report was prepared by Cryo)
 <leot> -
 <leot> Hello, and welcome to the 20th Annual General Meeting of The
 <leot> NetBSD Foundation.
 <leot> -
 <leot> First off, I'd like to thank spz (AGAIN) for volunteering to
 <leot> handle moderating and admins for doing the behind the scenes
 <leot> magic to make this event (and all our communication) possible.
 <leot> -
 <leot> Second, let me take a moment of your time to say that
 <leot> we have all had a tough couple of years enduring a pandemic
 <leot> that has cost some of us quite a bit.  No one expected that
 <leot> it would last this long, or that the geopolitical and social
 <leot> climates would have resulted in where we are now. I hope that
 <leot> you are well and safe during these unstable times we live in now.
 <leot> NetBSD and Pkgsrc continue to make improvements during this,
 <leot> albeit a little slower. We are on the cusp of branching NetBSD-10
 <leot> after 3 years of development with a slew of new features,
 <leot> improvements, and squished bugs. Your commits are very much
 <leot> appreciated, as is your continued support of the foundation.
 <leot> -

The report from the Board of Directors:
---------------------------------------------------

::

 <leot> Now on to the report from the Board of Directors:
 <leot> -
 <leot> The NetBSD Foundation Board of Directors presents a consolidated
 <leot> list of the relevant and major actions that occurred since last
 <leot> AGM.  Quite a few discussions, actions, and follow-ups crossed
 <leot> multiple meetings. Very few meetings resulted in not reaching
 <leot> quorum. Check our weekly meeting minutes in:
 <leot> localsrc/tnf/board/minutes for the latest on our progress.
 <leot> During this period, new directors were elected by the members
 <leot> and officers were renewed or installed.
 <leot> -
 <leot> We continued our support of BSDcan, AsiaBSDcon, and
 <leot> EuroBSDcon to improve our representation at conferences and
 <leot> developer summits.  Due to the never-ending pandemic, the
 <leot> continued cancellations and move to virtual summits, any approved
 <leot> contributions will be continue to be shifted until we can once
 <leot> again meet somewhere in the future.
 <leot> -
 <leot> We participated in the Google Summer of Code for 2021 but there
 <leot> was no virtual Google Summer of Code Mentor Summit. We are
 <leot> currently participating in GSoC this year with 5 students!
 <leot> -
 <leot> Like last year, we have provided core with a pre-approved,
 <leot> reasonable budget, to spend as they see most fit without an
 <leot> additional confirmation step from us.
 <leot> -
 <leot> We continued to improve our interaction and relationships with
 <leot> vendors, as well as participating in industry PSIRT/CSIRT
 <leot> with commercial vendors and other open-source projects.
 <leot> -
 <leot> The funded contracts continued for:
 <leot> o - improvements in release engineering by martin
 <leot> o - improvements in WiFi by martin
 <leot> -
 <leot> We completed a fundraising campaign, started a new one, and
 <leot> many many other minor things.
 <leot> -
 <leot> We would like to thank the vote coordinator, vote validator, and
 <leot> nomcom for the handling of last year's slate.  The new voting
 <leot> system was approved by the members, and we are starting the
 <leot> use of it for board seat openings very very shortly.
 <leot> -
 <leot> It has been an honor and pleasure to continue working with
 <leot> leot, mef, mlelstv, nia, riastradh, and wiz to accomplish all
 <leot> that we have in this year.
 <leot> -
 <leot> Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Board of Directors
 <leot> .eof
 <leot> Here the report from communication prepared by <billc> and <nia>, thanks!:
 <leot> -
 <leot> A non-scientific representation of Social Media Presence:
 <leot> -
 <leot> Twitter: (very active)
 <leot> @netbsd has 10,000 followers up from 9,490
 <leot> @pkgsrc has 685 followers up from 639
 <leot> -
 <leot> We have created an account on the distributed social network
 <leot> ActivityPub ('the fediverse'), where we have a small but
 <leot> dedicated fan base.
 <leot> @netbsd@mastodon.sdf.org has 230 followers (very active)
 <leot> -
 <leot> Facebook: 2,000 up from 1,900 members (sort of active)
 <leot> -
 <leot> Since we moved from FreeNode, to Libera.chat our numbers have
 <leot> stabilized. To help improve connectivity, we have created a
 <leot> Matrix bridge to our IRC channel.
 <leot> Libera IRC users: (very very active)
 <leot> #NetBSD: 228 down from 248
 <leot> #NetBSD-code: 59 up from 56
 <leot> #pkgsrc: 102 up from 92
 <leot> -
 <leot> .eof
 <spz> thank you leot

For finance-exec by Riastradh
-------------------------------

::

 <spz> next presentation is for finance-exec by Riastradh
 <Riastradh> Hi!  I'm Riastradh on finance-exec.  We maintain The NetBSD
 <Riastradh> Foundation's financial records and assets at board's direction.
 <Riastradh> We make sure the books are balanced and and send thank-you
 <Riastradh> letters to donors so they can get tax deductions (in the US).
 <Riastradh> We are:
 <Riastradh> - riastradh
 <Riastradh> - christos
 <Riastradh> .
 <Riastradh> We keep the books with ledger-cli <https://www.ledger-cli.org/>,
 <Riastradh> which we've been doing for a few years now, and use it to
 <Riastradh> prepare the public financial report and internal reports with
 <Riastradh> more detail.  This way we have an audit trail, under source
 <Riastradh> control, for all changes to the log of all transactions by TNF,
 <Riastradh> which we reconcile with statements from financial institutions
 <Riastradh> and payment processors.
 <Riastradh> .
 <Riastradh> The NetBSD Foundation's public 2021 financial report is at:
 <Riastradh> https://www.NetBSD.org/foundation/reports/financial/2021.html
 <Riastradh> .
 <Riastradh> Highlights:
 <Riastradh> - We have net assets of a bit over 200k USD.
 <Riastradh> - We took in >50k USD last year -- hooray!
 <Riastradh> - Not only that, but our expenses were unusually low, <20k USD.
 <Riastradh>   => It's good that we did better than break even!
 <Riastradh>   => But it also means we're not doing enough with the money.
 <Riastradh>   => (How to spend money is up to board and core.)
 <Riastradh> - (That said, we are still bad at fundraising.)
 <Riastradh> .
 <Riastradh> This year, in view of the high level of inflation since the
 <Riastradh> pandemic, the board authorized finance-exec to invest funds in
 <Riastradh> broad-market low-cost passively managed index funds in stocks and
 <Riastradh> bonds instead of just cash accounts -- which we maybe should have
 <Riastradh> done years ago since our net assets are substantially higher than
 <Riastradh> our annual revenue and expenses.  But finance-exec prudently
 <Riastradh> waited for the recent market crash so we haven't lost anything!
 <Riastradh> (Except the value of the USD due to inflation.)
 <Riastradh> .
 <Riastradh> Happy to answer any questions about what finance-exec does!
 <Riastradh> Thanks, -finance-exec
 <spz> Thanks Riastradh

Membership-exec by wiz
------------------------

::

 <spz> next we're getting the report from membership-exec by wiz
 <_wiz_> thanks, spz
 <_wiz_> The current members of membership-exec are:
 <_wiz_>     - Christos Zoulas <christos>
 <_wiz_>     - Martin Husemann <martin>
 <_wiz_>     - Lex Wennmacher <wennmach>
 <_wiz_>     - Thomas Klausner <wiz>, and
 <_wiz_>     - Ken Hornstein <kenh> who is on sabbatical.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> Membership-exec is responsible for all aspects of
 <_wiz_> "membership", but in practice the main task is to handle
 <_wiz_> membership applications. The number of active developers
 <_wiz_> (as of 2022-05-21) is 144 (down from 152 last year). As
 <_wiz_> in the last years, Thomas Klausner <wiz> conducted an
 <_wiz_> account cleanup.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> Since the last AGM we gained 8 new developers and,
 <_wiz_> mostly due to the account cleanup, lost 16.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> The difference between developers and active developers
 <_wiz_> is explained in the bylaws - an active developer has
 <_wiz_> actually committed something in the last year, or contributed
 <_wiz_> in an active way, like admins.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> We'd like to emphasize that we appreciate all your replies
 <_wiz_> to our membership RFC e-mails, although we do not usually
 <_wiz_> acknowledge them. Please keep on providing feedback to
 <_wiz_> the RFC mails.
 <_wiz_> that's it from membership-exec.
 <spz> Donning my admins’ hat:
 <spz> good localtime() all
 <spz> ,
 <spz> admins is the following people:
 <spz> christos, dogcow, gendalia, mspo, phil, riastradh, riz, seb, soda, spz, tls
 <spz> ,
 <spz> Statistics:
 <spz> - admins runs the following TNF systems:
 <spz> @ TastyLime
 <spz> + 8 hardware systems and 6 Xen guests
 <spz> = 1 earmv7hf, the rest amd64
 <spz> @ Columbia University
 <spz> + 11 hardware systems and 4 Xen guests,
 <spz> = 2 i386 guests, the rest amd64
 <spz> @ Washington University
 <spz> + 7 hardware systems and 2 Xen guests 
 <spz> = 1 earmv7hf and the rest amd64
 <spz> @ Regensburg (commercial housing)
 <spz> + 2 hardware systems, one of them with 2 Xen guests,
 <spz> = all amd64
 <spz> ,
 <spz> - CDN services donated by Fastly
 <spz> ,
 <spz> NetBSD versions in use:
 <spz> 3   pre-8.1
 <spz> 3   8.1_STABLE
 <spz> 4   9.0_STABLE
 <spz> 7   9.1_STABLE
 <spz> 12  9.2_STABLE
 <spz> 2   currentish
 <spz> ,
 <spz> Changes in use of system:
 <spz> the two armbulk builders have been retired: the aarch64 system @WWU builds
 <spz> their packages faster and with less fuss.
 <spz> ,
 <spz> Notable plans are to get all 8.x systems updated.
 <spz> ,
 <spz> Thanks to riz, tls and phil for their resources, time
 <spz> and blood sacrifices, too. :}
 <spz> ,
 <spz> Back to moderator.
 <spz> ,

core
----------

::

 <spz> The next three reports will be given by __martin, for core, security-team and re
 <spz> leng:
 <__martin> hello everyone - here is the core report:
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> Core's job is to provide technical leadership for the
 <__martin> project, manage funded projects, create roadmaps for
 <__martin> the future of the project, and resolve disputes.
 <__martin> Although we mean well, we have been doing less that
 <__martin> what we've hoped to achieve, and we welcome help.
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> Our group is:
 <__martin>    Alistair Crooks <agc@NetBSD.org>
 <__martin>    Christos Zoulas <christos@NetBSD.org>
 <__martin>    Chuck Silvers <chs@NetBSD.org>
 <__martin>    Robert Elz <kre@NetBSD.org>
 <__martin>    Martin Husemann <martin@NetBSD.org>
 <__martin>    Matthew Green <mrg@NetBSD.org>
 <__martin>    Taylor R Campbell <riastradh@NetBSD.org>
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> The group can be reached at <core@NetBSD.org>
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> One of the tasks of the core team is to oversee,
 <__martin> initiate and approve funded projects. We had a few of
 <__martin> those in the last year and a few ongoing and planned
 <__martin> for the future.
 <__martin>  
 <__martin>  - Martin working on merging wifi from FreeBSD, with
 <__martin>    nat@ and a student of Phil (James Browning) helping
 <__martin>    a lot.
 <__martin>  - releng work (martin)
 <__martin>  - last year we only received one GSoC slot, but had another
 <__martin>    worthwhile proposal, funded a second student implementing
 <__martin>    a posix_spawn(2) extension to support chdir(2). The
 <__martin>    official GSoC project failed, but the TNF funded student
 <__martin>    succeeded and the code has been merged. The same student
 <__martin>    is doing another project in this years GSoC.
 <__martin>  - this year we got five projects for GSoC (more details
 <__martin>    to be annouced shortly).
 <__martin>    One of them is trying to get the Raspberry PI GPU
 <__martin>    supported (via a kernel module),
 <__martin>    one is about automation of some tedious and time-
 <__martin>    consuming semi-manual jobs that finance-exec is doing
 <__martin>    now when we receive donations.
 <__martin>    Another one is about adding support for two more wifi
 <__martin>    chipsets on top of the wifi renovation work.
 <__martin>    The other two are enhancements to linux emulation
 <__martin>    and improvements for inetd.
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> We are always open for suggestion from developers who would
 <__martin> like to work on specific topics that require larger
 <__martin> work or have been long neglected and need cleanup.
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> Another task of the core team is to resolve disputes
 <__martin> between developers and provide ruling for contested
 <__martin> issues. This year was quiet in this regard, besides
 <__martin> one open item where we have to decide how to deal with
 <__martin> userland requests for strong entropy. A public
 <__martin> statement about our ruling on this is being worked on.
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> This needs to happen before the NetBSD 10 release.
 <__martin> Next thing after that we plan to have the wifi work
 <__martin> merged into -current (about one month after the
 <__martin> netbsd-10 branch started), which initially might break
 <__martin> a few chipsets. Hopefully this will be fixable
 <__martin> quickly. Help from everyone with access to (supported)
 <__martin> wifi hardware will be appreciated!

Security team
-------------------

::

 <__martin>  
 <__martin> The most painful task for core is to automatically be
 <__martin> part of the security team and acting as fallback to make
 <__martin> sure that security issues are handled in a timely fashion.
 <__martin> Please consider joining our security team to help.
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> Another way you can help the core team is to take over
 <__martin> maintenance of some of our big 3rd party software.
 <__martin> Currently most of this is done by both christos@ and mrg@,
 <__martin> who could use more time for core and other business.
 <__martin> If you feel you could help, please contact the current
 <__martin> maintainer (see src/doc/3RDPARTY).
 <__martin> thats it for core, happy to take questions later
 <__martin> now for security team, this report was prepared mostly by shm:
 <__martin> This is a brief report for security-team.
 <__martin> -
 <__martin> Since the last AGM, we have released two
 <__martin> Security Advisories:
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> * NetBSD-SA2022-001 PPPoE discovery phase memory corruption
 <__martin> * NetBSD-SA2021-002 Incorrect permissions in kernfs
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> Another SA for the recent mail.local(8) fixes is about
 <__martin> to be published.
 <__martin> -
 <__martin> We'd like to encourage the NetBSD project members 
 <__martin> participate in the security-team work. The process of
 <__martin> writing advisories and handling the patches is
 <__martin> time-consuming but rewarding: one gets to learn about
 <__martin> different ways used to subvert security which in turn
 <__martin> improves their ability to write secure code, implement
 <__martin> security fixes, and at the same time learn how to
 <__martin> convey complex technical concepts in clear and concise
 <__martin> manners.  Because we are short-handed, we are slow
 <__martin> analyzing issues, responding to known ones, or we are
 <__martin> delayed on publishing already corrected security
 <__martin> vulnerabilities. To be able to be more responsive, we
 <__martin> need more hands on board! Feel free to contact us at
 <__martin> security-team@.
 <__martin> -
 <__martin> Additionally we invite you to share with the team all
 <__martin> your concerns about security of the NetBSD code,
 <__martin> especially if you feel that the bug you just fixed
 <__martin> could be connected with security. If you have any
 <__martin> questions or ideas how to improve, we are here to
 <__martin> help.
 <__martin> -
 <__martin> NetBSD continues to be represented in a product
 <__martin> security incident response working group with other
 <__martin> operating system vendors (CERT/VINCE/FULL DISCLOSURE)
 <__martin> as well as software package distributors 
 <__martin> (ISC/OpenSSL/NTP), and we are in direct contact with
 <__martin> the security teams of the other BSD projects.
 <__martin> This framework allows us to better work with vendors
 <__martin> requiring an embargoed and/or coordinated release with
 <__martin> other operating systems. We can begin working on
 <__martin> issues that affect NetBSD much faster, instead of 
 <__martin> only notified after an embargo is lifted.
 <__martin> -
 <__martin> Submitted respectfully on behalf of the 
 <__martin> security-officer(s),the security-team, and the sirt team.
 <__martin> that's it for security-team, moving on the releng-hat

releng
----------------

::

 <__martin> We are:
 <__martin>   abs agc bouyer he jdc martin msaitoh phil reed riz
 <__martin>   sborrill snj
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> Since the last meeting, we have:
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> - Released nothing (doh!) - last release (9.2) predates the last
 <__martin>   meeting by a few days
 <__martin> - Processed hundreds of pullup requests.
 <__martin> - Started initial preparations to make the build cluster
 <__martin>   independend from cvs (and also encouraged some developers
 <__martin>   to experiment with off-the-shelf alternatives)
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> Similar to the last two years meeting we hoped to have
 <__martin> branched for NetBSD 10 by now, but even now it has not
 <__martin> yet happend - we are past the publicaly announced
 <__martin> branch plan by slightly more than a week now.
 <__martin> All but one blockers for the branch have been resolved
 <__martin> by now, and the final one (new getentropy(2)) will
 <__martin> have to wait for netbsd-11 if it does not get into
 <__martin> tree within the next few days.
 <__martin> The major challenges for netbsd-10 and a smooth release
 <__martin> are
 <__martin>  - new bugs in the new DRM code (e.g. black screen on
 <__martin>    many i915 machines)
 <__martin>  - handling of entropy (to block or not to block,
 <__martin>    informally know as "waiting for randot" - we expect
 <__martin>    a core resolution on that (but this does not delay
 <__martin>    the branch itself)
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> Once the netbsd-10 branch is on its way we hope for a
 <__martin> fast and smooth release cycle, but the major killer
 <__martin> will be DRM bugs and it is not easy to estimate how
 <__martin> fast they can be fixed. Optimistically we hope to not
 <__martin> need more than three month from branch to final
 <__martin> release.
 <__martin> Midway during that netbsd-10 branch beta phase, we
 <__martin> plan to do a 9.3 release. Quite a bit of changes
 <__martin> happened on the branch since 9.2.
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> Another release for the netbsd-8 branch
 <__martin> will happen too, but likely not too soon. We will
 <__martin> desupport it a month after the NetBSD 10.0 release.
 <__martin>  
 <__martin> To close, I would like to remind everyone that release
 <__martin> branches only improve because developers took the time
 <__martin> to test their changes on the branch and submit a
 <__martin> pullup request. We have been pretty good with this,
 <__martin> and pulled up lots of security and usability improvements,
 <__martin> as well as bug fixes to the various active branches.
 <__martin> This is good for our users, thank you to everyone who
 <__martin> cared and made it possible.
 <spz> Thanks martin

pkgsrc-pmc
---------------

::

 <spz> and we'll be having wiz again for pkgsrc-pmc
 <_wiz_> this presentation was prepared by gdt
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> The pkgsrc team kept pkgsrc-current up to date and in good working
 <_wiz_> order, and delivered four -- the 71st through 74th -- stable branches,
 <_wiz_> both source code and binary packages.  The big point is that no one
 <_wiz_> found this surprising.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> The pkgsrc team has welcomed a number of new developers.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> pkgsrc continues to use the process started last year for assessing
 <_wiz_> binary package sets before flipping the default symlink to them, and
 <_wiz_> thus causing binary package users to use them.  The goal is to make
 <_wiz_> sure enough resolvable issues have been resolved before the switch, so
 <_wiz_> that users don't update and then not have e.g. firefox.  Thanks to
 <_wiz_> nia@ for the idea and doing the assessing and symlink changing.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> Some upstream packages continue to fail to build on some platforms.
 <_wiz_> While pkgsrc has attempted to mitigate this, older platforms such as
 <_wiz_> NetBSD 8 -- even more than a year ago -- are increasingly losing some
 <_wiz_> packages that have complicated and difficult build requirements.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> Rust support still requires significant effort, but during the past
 <_wiz_> year this has been routine.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> We continue to prune abandoned-by-upstream and broken packages at the
 <_wiz_> more aggressive pace mentioned in last year's report, with no broad
 <_wiz_> complaints.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> As noted in last year's report, at the end of 2020 we switched the
 <_wiz_> default path for the PKGDB on NetBSD from /var/db/pkg to
 <_wiz_> ${PREFIX}/pkgdb.  We continue to see some issues among the user
 <_wiz_> community about this, but much less.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_> Besides the usual, we are currently assessing the speed of bulk
 <_wiz_> builds, in order to understand what can be done to deliver binary
 <_wiz_> packages faster after a branch.
 <_wiz_> -
 <_wiz_>   -- gdt, for pkgsrc-pmc
 <spz> Thanks wiz

pkgsrc-security
------------------

::

 <spz> drscream is presenting for pkgsrc-security
 <drscream> The mission of the pkgsrc Security Team is to ensure that the ever-growing
 <drscream> ecosystem of third party software is either safe to use or at least be sure
 <drscream> people are aware of the known vulnerabilities.
 <drscream>         -
 <drscream> Our members monitor publicly available vulnerability feeds, mainly CVE.
 <drscream>         -
 <drscream> We aggregate received advisories believed to impact pkgsrc into the pkgsrc
 <drscream> vulnerability list. When time allows we try to notify individual package
 <drscream> MAINTAINERs and locate, commit patches to fix the vulnerabilities.
 <drscream>         -
 <drscream> Since 2021 our ticket handling crew is currently only 2 people, unfortunately
 <drscream> pretty understaffed. We are looking and welcome people volunteering to join
 <drscream> us!
 <drscream>         -
 <drscream> Currently handling tickets are:
 <drscream>  - Leonardo Taccari <leot>
 <drscream>  - Thomas Merkel <tm>
 <drscream>         -
 <drscream> The other current members of the team are:
 <drscream>  - Alistair G. Crooks <agc>
 <drscream>  - Daniel Horecki <morr>
 <drscream>  - Thomas Klausner <wiz>
 <drscream>  - Tobias Nygren <tnn>
 <drscream>  - Ryo ONODERA <ryoon>
 <drscream>  - Travis Paul <tpaul>
 <drscream>  - Fredrik Pettai <pettai>
 <drscream>  - Joerg Sonnenberger <joerg>
 <drscream>  - Tim Zingelman <tez>
 <drscream>         -
 <drscream> The year in numbers:
 <drscream> In 2021, the vulnerability list had 2070 lines added to it (338 more than last
 <drscream> year) for a total of 22456 known vulnerabilities.
 <drscream> In 2021, the ticket queue received 21960 new advisories (7887 less than last
 <drscream> year). Of these 21960 new advisories:
 <drscream>  stalled:  22    ( 0.1%)
 <drscream>  resolved: 1881  ( 8.6%) (affecting pkgsrc packages)
 <drscream>  rejected: 20057 (91.3%) (no impact or duplicates)
 <drscream>         -
 <drscream> The current count of vulnerable packages in pkgsrc-current is 728 (51 more
 <drscream> than last year), in pkgsrc-stable is 733 (37 more than last year).
 <drscream> See the periodic email to packages@NetBSD.org for the list.  We can always
 <drscream> use help locating and committing security patches, in particular for the
 <drscream> many of these that are maintained by pkgsrc-users.
 <drscream>         -
 <drscream> We encourage all developers to help us keep the vulnerability list up-to-date.
 <drscream> If you become aware of a security issue or perform a security update in pkgsrc
 <drscream> please edit the list. You don't need any special privilege for this.
 <drscream> You'll find the list in localsrc CVS repository:
 <drscream>  localsrc/security/advisories/pkg-vulnerabilities
 <drscream> The team periodically signs off and uploads new revisions to ftp.NetBSD.org.
 <drscream> If you prefer, you can contact us to make the edits, just by emailing the
 <drscream> info to pkgsrc-security@.
 <drscream>         -
 <drscream> Please join the pkgsrc Security ticket handling crew, we're pretty understaffed
 <drscream> at the moment! Feel free to get in touch with us for additional details or an
 <drscream> introduction.
 <drscream>         -
 <drscream> EOF
 <spz> Thanks drscream

pkgbuilding
----------------

::

 <spz> racoon reports on pkgbuilding
 <racoon> gentlebeings, this presentation is on behalf of pkgbuild
 <racoon> (the team responsible for building third-party software
 <racoon> packages for NetBSD).  Sorry that it will likely duplicate
 <racoon> some info from pkgsrc-pmc@.
 <racoon> .
 <racoon> While pkgsrc has made great strides in stability in the last
 <racoon> few years, some challenges remain for the package building
 <racoon> team in ensuring quality binary package sets for NetBSD.
 <racoon> .
 <racoon> The NetBSD 9 system C++ compiler is starting to show its age
 <racoon> with a lack of support for certain C++17 features, and
 <racoon> difficulties substituting the system compiler on some ARM
 <racoon> variants is hurting the quality of the builds.  We are doing
 <racoon> our best to rapidly adapt pkgsrc for this.  NetBSD 8 packages
 <racoon> will stay at older versions due to similar, but more
 <racoon> pronounced difficulties.
 <racoon> .
 <racoon> The NetBSD Foundation has provided increasing access to
 <racoon> powerful hardware that enables us to get out new package
 <racoon> updates quicker than ever before.  However, x86 still lags
 <racoon> behind in speed, mostly due to a lack of parallelization in
 <racoon> the older building infrastructure compared to our speedy
 <racoon> AArch64 efforts.
 <racoon> .
 <racoon> Tests have shown that pkgsrc is very much ready for
 <racoon> NetBSD 10, and we hope to publish a quality, complete set of
 <racoon> binary packages before the release to enable in-depth
 <racoon> testing by users.
 <racoon> eof
 <spz> thanks racoon

gnats - bug database
-----------------------

::

 <spz> and a report from our chief entomologist dh` on our gnats stats:
 <dh`> Here's the bug database report since the last AGM (12 months):
 <dh`>  
 <dh`> GNATS statistics for 2021 (as of May 21 2022)
 <dh`>  
 <dh`> New PRs this year: 653, of which 400 are still open.
 <dh`> Closed PRs this year: 679. Net change: -26. 
 <dh`> Total PRs touched this year: 1145.
 <dh`> Oldest PR touched this year: 2726.
 <dh`> Oldest open PR: 1677; PR ignored for the longest: 3019.
 <dh`>  
 <dh`> Total number open: 5947
 <dh`>  
 <dh`> This year after working the overall count down over the summer it
 <dh`> gradually crept back again, until we once again bumped 6000 last
 <dh`> month. It is down again, though not really by enough yet. This is the
 <dh`> weekly plot:
 <dh`>  
 <dh`>                                                  **      6030
 <dh`>    **                                   **************  
 <dh`>    ******                            *******************
 <dh`>    ********              **    ** **********************
 <dh`>    ********* *      ************************************
 <dh`>    ***************************************************** 5880
 <dh`>  
 <dh`> The variation seen in this graph is only around 2% of the total, which
 <dh`> is both good and bad; bad because there are still far too many
 <dh`> outstanding PRs and we lose track of things, but good in that the
 <dh`> count is not just growing without bound as has happened in some
 <dh`> periods in the past. That was how we got to the point of having 6000
 <dh`> open reports.
 <dh`>  
 <dh`> On the minus side, we are slightly ahead this year partly because
 <dh`> fewer PRs came in this year (last year there were 879) -- since
 <dh`> there's some reason to think this is a function of the community
 <dh`> engagement level as much as anything else, it's a mixed blessing.
 <dh`>  
 <dh`> If anyone was wondering, the oldest open PR (PR 1677) is about a panic
 <dh`> in unionfs, and the most untouched PR (PR 3019) is about NFS export
 <dh`> permissions being per-volume rather than controllable on an individual
 <dh`> subtree basis. Both of these are fairly intractable problems, but it
 <dh`> would certainly be nice to see either retired this coming year if
 <dh`> anyone feels the urge.
 <dh`>  
 <dh`> Here are the people who've been fixing the most bugs, as counted by
 <dh`> commit messages found in PRs closed during the year.
 <dh`>  
 <dh`>   26  dholland@netbsd.org
 <dh`>   26  gutteridge@netbsd.org
 <dh`>   29  nia@netbsd.org
 <dh`>   32  rin@netbsd.org
 <dh`>   41  christos@netbsd.org
 <dh`>  
 <dh`> This list has a very long tail; there are 65 people who've fixed or
 <dh`> helped fix at least one bug report. Thanks to one and all.
 <dh`>  
 <spz> Thanks dh
 <dh`> (That's 65 developers, not counting patches) 
 <dh`> And here are those who've been processing pullups, according to the
 <dh`> same analysis:
 <dh`>  
 <dh`>    1  spz@netbsd.org (releng)
 <dh`>    1  tm@netbsd.org (releng)
 <dh`>    8  snj@netbsd.org (releng)
 <dh`>    9  bsiegert@netbsd.org (releng)
 <dh`>   47  martin@netbsd.org (releng)
 <dh`>  
 <dh`> As in several past years, Martin's being doing nearly all the work. 
 <dh`> Many, many thanks, Martin.
 <dh`>  
 <dh`> (eot)
 <spz> Sorry for the premature interruption, thanks dh

Q&A
---------

::

 <spz> Now Q&A begins, msg me "I have a question for <team>"
 <dh`> no worries
 <spz> or "I have a question for <nick>" and I will give you voice
 <spz> no-one has any questions?

1. getentropy/getrandom ABI changes at the current pace?

::

 <racoon> I have a question for releng
 <racoon> how likely is it that netbsd-10 will ship without getentropy/getrandom ABI changes at the current pace?
 <Riastradh> not likely, working on it right now
 <racoon> do we have a rough (revised?) timeframe for the release?
 <__martin> branch early next week, release in 3 month if DRM plays well
 <racoon> thank you, __martin and Riastradh

2. coreutils and upstreaming patches

::

 <spz> next question is by Irvise_ to core
 <Irvise_> Hi, I recently updated support of GCC-Ada in pkgsrc. I also tried integrating it into core. However, there seems to be a lot of patches in coreutils, gcc and the build system that makes it pretty difficult. Is core interested in upstreaming patches to upstream to aid the task?
 <Irvise_> Also, thank you for your work!
 <__martin> yes, definitively!
 <Irvise_> For example, upstream coreutils does not have support for aarch64-netbsd, and it seems that the support in src is... less than ideal...
 <Irvise_> Okay, thank you!
 <spz> kre2 for releng
 <racoon> (it may be of interest for board to fund this project, providing we have willing victims^Wvolunteers)

3. automatic point releases on stable branches periodically?

::

 <kre2> what would it take to enable automatic point releases on stable branches periodically?
 <kre2> say every 5 or 6 months, simply release whatever is on the branch
 <__martin> depends on "automatic" - it mostly is, but needs someone to write the release notes and push security-office to do the signing
 <kre2> Could we generate release notes on the fly with pullups?
 <__martin> maybe, we could add some markers to the CHANGES* entries
 <kre2> Ask pullup requests to supply text to add/modify?
 <__martin> worth thinking about, but even w/o regular point releases are easy to do
 <__martin> (and probably a good idea)
 <kre2> woud be better than nothibng for a year...   Thanks.

4. drm/kms driver fails

::

 <spz> next is tse_, also for releng
 <tse_> releng: are there any plans to delay the 10.0 release in order to get the graphical stack (for lack of a better word) in a more stable state, as there are reports from multiple users about problems with nouveau, for example, or is this not a priority? Thank you, and thanks for all the hard work :)
 <__martin> good question - we will not delay the branch, but the release will certainly not happen with major hardware giving black screens
 <Riastradh> It's hard...  Sorry, I wish I had a better answer!  Couple things I'd like to do before release (but after branch, probably):
 <Riastradh> - create a fallback to dumb vga when the drm/kms driver fails
 <Riastradh> - fix bugs arising from changes in the last update about when framebuffer devices attach if you don't have a display currently plugged in
 <tse_> thanks!

5. scm migration

::

 <spz> ok, next we've got wiz asking about scm migration
 <Riastradh> Aside from that, well, need to sit down and do more diagnotics.  I kinda burned out a bit at the time the last update was merged, but I'm hoping to fix some more things.
 <_wiz_> what is the state of the scm migration away from CVS?
 <nbjoerg> we had one big problem with people getting connection resets from anonhg without a clear cause
 <nbjoerg> that's supposedly fixed, but it is hard to get feedback :)
 <spz> short comment from me to that: the support from admins could be better, the pandemic blahs haven't helped
 <nbjoerg> the network speed of anonhg is a known issue, so don't be surprised if you get only 200KB/s on a bad day
 <nbjoerg> at this point, if I don't hear anything about sporadic errors soon, I call the technical side done
 <nbjoerg> there is still some documentation to be written and some of our automated tooling to be updated
 <nbjoerg> so summary: please tell me if you run into problems. docs are still in progress, but I don't have immediate show stoppers ATM
 <_wiz_> what can be done to speed it up? do you need help in particular areas?
 <nbjoerg> bandwidth is a result of the hosting location
 <nbjoerg> it's not too bad for initial clones as those go to fastly (and that finally works properly)
 <nbjoerg> and if you update regulary
 <_wiz_> and for the migration itself? :)
 <nbjoerg> we can set a date later this year and hope that I can actually take time off work :)
 <__martin> nbjoerg: can we do it before the wifi merge?
 <nbjoerg> I'm open for most dates after July or so
 <_wiz_> so july 15.
 <nbjoerg> let's take that to the lists, but I'm not opposed
 <_wiz_> thanks.

6. signed binary pkgs

::

 <spz> ok, next a question by martin
 <__martin> with the -10 release cycle starting, we will have new binary pkg setups
 <__martin> I would really like us to ship signed binary pkgs for 10.0
 <__martin> there is a project on the wiki describing the issues we have with that
 <__martin> any volunteer to help is welcome!
 <__martin> current tests were either failing because I am too stupid or there are bugs in the pkg tools
 <__martin> (I'm assuming the latter)
 <__martin> if this needs more work, I'm pretty sure it would also make a good suggestion for a funded project
 <__martin> http://wiki.netbsd.org/projects/project/Make_signed_binary_pkgs_for_NetBSD_happen/
 <racoon> then, we need good documentation for all the builders (currently jklos@, he@, bouyer@, mlelstv@, myself) to follow for easy setup, and a whole lot of keys from those people in the base system :)
 <spz> and a master key in the base system

Closing
-------------

::

 <spz> anyway, more questions?
 <spz> if not I'll hand over to leot for closing:
 <leot> Thank you spz!
 <leot>         -
 <leot> Before closing, The NetBSD Foundation, would like to thanks...
 <leot>         -
 <leot> Thanks to all the places that host our server machines and thanks to
 <leot> all kind heroes who do hands-on work too on them!
 <leot>         -
 <leot> Thanks to all the executive committees who do a lot of work behind the
 <leot> scenes to keep everything running smoothly!
 <leot>         -
 <leot> Thanks to everyone who is running our services, participating and
 <leot> helping in mailing lists, chat and other communities and filling PRs!
 <leot>         -
 <leot> Finally, thank you, for being part of this process today, fixing bugs,
 <leot> committing new features and making NetBSD and pkgsrc the best operating
 <leot> system and packaging system!
 <leot> We couldn't do it without you, keep up the excellent work!
 <leot>         -
 <leot> EOF
 <Cryo> Thanks everyone!
 <pickles> thanks folks!
 <wiedi> \o/
 <racoon> <3
